---
title: Pyenv-Virtualenv - A Virtual Environment Manager Pyenv Plugin
tags: Python, Mac
---

In a previous article, I talked about creating isolated Python environments with Virtualenv. Even though you can spin up isolated environments simply, we can optimize the processto create such environments even more with a Python manager Pyenv Plugin called Pyenv-virtualenv.

This tutorial is done using a Mac. The link to the previous Virtualenv article can be found here: https://www.dev-things.com/VirtualEnv

#### What is Pyenv-Virtualenv?

Pyenv-Virtualenv takes Virtualenv to the next step. With Pyenv-Virtualenv, you can install any Python version and spin up a Virtualenv without creating the folder in the project yourself. You can activate the environment in any directory.

#### Installing Pyenv-Virtualenv

Let's install Pyenv-Virtualenv. Since I am on a Mac, we can just use brew. If you don't have brew you can install it with this command:

```shell
$ /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

After installing brew, we can simply install everything using this command:

```shell
$ brew install pyenv-virtualenv
$ echo 'eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"' >> ~/.bash_profile
$ source ~/.bash_profile
```

Then you can validate your install using this command:

```shell
$ pyenv --version
```

#### Using Pyenv-Virtualenv for Virtualenv Control

Now that you have Pyenv installed, we can start installing multiple versions of Python. Let's first install Python 2.7 and 3.6 using these commands:

```shell
$ pyenv install 2.7.0
$ pyenv install 3.6.0
```

Then let's check if they installed correctly:

```shell
$  pyenv versions
```

Now let's create a Virtualenv with Pyenv

```shell
# Choose either or to run
$ pyenv virtualenv 2.7.1 python2env
$ pyenv virtualenv 3.6.1 python3env
```

Now that we have created a virtualenv using Pyenv we can see all the virtualenv's that are created.

```shell
$ pyenv virtualenvs
```

You should see the name of the virtualenv you created show up with that Python version.

Now we can activate our virtualenv's with pyenv with this command:

```shell
# Choose either or to run
$ pyenv activate python2env
$ pyenv activate python3env
```

Then we can easily deactivate them with this command:

```shell
$ pyenv deactivate
```

#### Conclusion

That's really all you need to know. You can still pip freeze your requirements.txt

#### Resources used to make this article

- Link to Pyenv: https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#homebrew-on-macos
- Link to Pyenv-Virtualenv: https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv
- Link to Virtualenv: https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/
